[SOUND] So we'll continue
to talk about the Arduino board.
Talk about the different
components on the board.
Note that a lot of this.
Some of this information you need,
some, you don't.
So I'm gonna go into a little bit more
detail than you necessarily are ever going
to need, but you might.
So what I mean is if I'm too superficial
about this then when you run into problems
you won't know what to do.
So it's helpful if I give you a little
bit more depth then you actually will
regularly need and then every once
in a while something goes wrong and
know what the error is about.
So this you're gonna need to know though.
This is the input output pin to the board.
So you can see at the top and
the bottom in red, we circled these pins.
And each one of those pins
on the board is a hole,
a hole in the board that fits a wire.
I believe 24 gauge wire is the wire.
So, you stick the wire in the hole and
those holes on the top and
the bottom are wired or
connected through traces on the board.
They're connected to the pins of
the actual chip of the main processor
down there.
So you can't see the traces because
they're probably embedded inside
the board, maybe they're right on
the bottom, but they're connected.
So if you wanna connect to that chip, the
microcontroller chip, you connect to those
I/O pins on the top or on the bottom
that we've highlighted in red.
Now on the top you can
see the digital I/O pins.
Those pins are meant to be,
they take digital inputs and outputs.
They drive digital outputs and
they take digital inputs.
So, by digital, this board,
this Arduino board,
the uno board is zero volts or five volts.
Right so zero volts means zero,
and five volts means a one.
Now there are other Arduino boards,
not this one, that run at 3.3 volts.
So zero to 3.3 but
right now we're doing zero to five.
So the digital I/O
are the ones on the top.
Now the ones on the bottom,
some of those are analog inputs.
So you can see the ones we've
highlighted analog inputs.
Those can take analog data on the input.
The voltages don't have to be zero volts
or five volts, they can be in between and
that information can be read
by the microcontroller.
We'll talk about how to do that later.
So those inputs are the only ones that
you can drive with analog inputs.
Note that it doesn't provide
analog outputs in a direct way,
cuz it's a digital the processor
itself is a digital processor.
So it can't drive analog outputs,
but it can accept analog inputs.
Because it has an analog because
it has an analog converter
built into the micro controller.
So all CC the other pins down there,
the power reset pins.
Power reset pins are generally outputs.
They have the ground and the power on.
They have five volt power, 3.3 volt power,
several grounds, and things like this.
So, those are on those pins, and
often, when you're connecting,
when you're wiring a circuit,
connecting it to the board.
You'll maybe take power from
the five volts from the board,
from the Arduino board wired to your
circuit, and also you'll wanna have
a common ground between your
Arduino board, and your circuits.
So, you'll take the ground from one of
these ground pins on the Arduino board,
and wire it to the circuit.
Those pins, you're gonna be using
those all the time, because that's
how the processor interacts with the
world, with the senses and the actuators.
Now, two other important
Important features on this board
are the microprocessors now this board
actually has two microprocessors micro
controllers on it.
The main one is that big one
down there the ATmega328.
That is a program that is a processor
that you are programming that the user is
programming.
So your code, when you write it and
compile it it gets written into that
ATmega328 and
the ATmega328 executes the code.
Now in addition to that processor,
there's this other micro-controller,
the ATmega16U2, and that is there just to
handle the communication with the USB.
So, USB is a protocol, and that processor,
all it does is it understands
the USB protocol.
So data that comes in on the USB, it
translates it to something that the main
processor can understand and
it passes it on to the main processor.
And when the main processor
wants to write something to USB,
it translates that into USB protocol and
sends it out So that process,
that ATmega16U2,
you won't ever directly access.
It has code on it, code in it's flash,
and you will not touch that code.
It just stays there
forever to talk to USB.
So you really are going to be
accessing that ATmega328 directly.
Now, the ATmega328 that you're
gonna be working with, and
any microcontroller really,
has let's say, broadly defined,
two types of code running
on the microcontroller.
Okay.
One type of code,
we'll call application code.
That is a code that you as a programmer
are generally going to write.
Okay.
That is a program that doesn't
come with the microcontroller, you write
that for your particular application.
So if you want to make an Arduino,
you wanna build a system with an Arduino I
don't know, something to sense
if plants need to get watered.
So it senses the humidity,
it senses how wet it is,
it waters the plants, something like that.
You're gonna write code to do that and
you would call that application code.
So we write the code, or you,
the programmer, write the code, and
it executes the main functionality
of the system, directly.
Now, besides this application code,
systems typically have firmware.
Now, firmware Is low level code
that supports the main function,
but doesn't directly
perform the main function.
So it does all the background stuff,
like the USB interface, right.
The Arduino has to talk
to the USB interface.
And you, as a programmer, you don't
have to directly figure out how to
talk on the USB interface, but
the Arduino has to know how.
So it has code in there dedicated
to talking on the USB interface.
Boot loader code does some of that,
and we'll talk about that later.
Power modes, right.
Changing the power modes from
low power to high power mode,
that happens in the background.
You as a programmer
don't have to see that.
Reset, when the reset button is pressed,
what happens to the device,
that's all code that you as
a programmer don't have to write.
That stuff is already programmed in there.
Generally, you call that firmware.
So the programmer doesn’t write it, but
it’s code that’s sitting on the Arduino
anyway, and comes with the Arduino.
So when you buy the Arduino
on that microcontroller,
it already has firmware built in to it.
Now the distinction between firmware and
application code is somewhat
a matter of perspective.
So in the sense that, so
definitely it's clear the application code
is something that the programmer writes.
But all the code, so say you take
an Arduino, and you use your Arduino to
make a camera, like the one
pointing at me right now, okay,
you use it to drive the motors and pull
the lens in and out and all that, right?
So you write some code,
and you wrote it so
you would think of it as application code.
But once you sell that
product to somebody,
sell the camera to somebody,
they will never touch that code, right?
They don't access that code.
So they think of that code as firmware.
That code to them is firmware because
they're never gonna modify it, right?
So somehow this definition of
firmware depends on your perspective.
What part of the chain you're in, right.
If you buy something, and
it has code already in it that you did
not modify you call that firmware often,
and it accesses a low level hardware,
you call that firmware.
But in general with us, we're gonna
be writing code on this Arduino, but
we will not be writing this firmware code.
But it exists on there, so
you should be aware of that.
All right, it's preprogrammed,
so it comes with the Arduino,
the firmware's already been
programmed onto that ATmega328.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]